                                     C Language Notes Of 1st  Chapter   


Q-1 what is Programing language?
Ans- Programing language is medium for us to communicate with computer. for example- we use english or hindi 
language to communicute to each other. Programing is way for us to deliver our instruction to computer.

Q-2 what is c language?
Ans- c is a programing language. it is a one of oldest and finest language.
 it is developed in 1972 by Denis Ritchie  at AT & T'S  lab. 

Q-3 what is the uses of c language?
Ans- (i) c language is used for making drivers.
(ii) Major parts of oprating system like windows, linux etc are written in c language.

Q-4 what is variables in c language?
Ans-Basically, varaiables is name of memory where we store data/values.
for example-  int ‎w= 2; 
here w is varaible name in which 2 integer value is stored.

Q-5 what is rules of write the names of variables?
Ans- (i) varaiables names is core sensitive.
(ii) no comma, blank allowed.
(iii) first character is alphabet and _undercore.

Q-6 what is constants in c language?
Ans- In the c language, there are three types of constants.
(i) integer constants, for ex- 1, -2, -78 etc.
(ii) real constants, for ex- 7.98, 7.6 etc.  
(iii) character constants, for ex- a, v, l etc.

Q-7 what is keywords in c language?
Ans- The keywords are these types of words, whose meaning is already know to the compiler.
There are 32 keywords in c language.

Q-8 what is library functions in c language?
Ans - There are many types of library functions in c language.
for ex- we use printf function to print any value on screen.
we use scanf function to recive the output from user.
 %d is use for integer values.
 %f is use for real values.
 %c is use for character values.

Q-9 what is comments in c language?
Ans- if we want to tell something about our program then we use comments.
there are two types of comments in c language.
(i) Single line comment- //
(ii )Multi line comment- /*   
                         */
Q-10 what is datatype in c language?
Ans- Datatype is form of data which is store in memory.
for ex- int a; Here int is datatype which store integer value in memory.
      Primary datatype                               Secondary datatype
int     float     char     double              arry      pointer      structure
2byte   4byte     1byte    8byte                ?          ?           ?

Q-11 what is header files in c language?
Ans- we use header files to start our program.for ex- printf, scanf function is not used without header files.
      #include<stdio.h>-- is a header files which contains the most of fuctions of c language 



